docs: update post conditions (#629)
hirosystems/docs: docs/stacks.js/guides/deep-dive-post-conditions.md

---
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

# Deep Dive Post-Conditions

In Stacks, transactions can have "post-conditions".
These are an additional security to ensure the transaction was executed as expected, without having the user needing to know the code of a smart contract.

Post-conditions can be used on contract calls and FT/NFT transfers.
Adding post-conditions to a transaction can ensure that:

- STX tokens were transferred from an address
- FTs/NFTs we transferred from an address

### Caveats

Post-conditions aren't perfect!
They can't say anything about the end-state after a transaction.
So, they can't guarantee the receival of FTs/NFTs, since they only check for sending.

## Post-Condition Modes

> **All given post-conditions will be always be checked.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**All given post-conditions will always be checked.**
```

However, in addition to the post-conditions itself, we can also specify a "mode" for the transaction to verify other asset transfers.
The mode can be either `Allow` or `Deny`.

- `Allow` means that the transaction can transfer any asset (assuming no conflicting post-conditions).
- `Deny` means the transaction will fail if any asset transfers (not specified in the post-conditions) are attempted.

Think of the mode as "allow/deny transfer of unspecified assets".

With Stacks.js we can set the mode via an exported enums from `@stacks/transactions`.

```ts
import { PostConditionMode } from '@stacks/transactions';

const tx = await makeContractCall({
  // ...
  postConditionMode: PostConditionMode.Allow,
  // OR
  postConditionMode: PostConditionMode.Deny,
  // ...
});
```

## Constructing Post-Conditions

> The easiert way to construct a post-conditions in Stacks.js is to use the `Pc` helpers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to construct a post-condition in Stacks.js is to use the `Pc` helpers.
```
